What the job market looks like today versus what it's going to look like and four years, when folks graduate, it's constantly evolving, constantly changing. Today most people graduating are going to have many jobs throughout their lives. And so I think success is much less about having the content knowledge or certainly, of course, there's always some technical skills you need, but it's really about the ability to be flexible and adapt and to come into a new workplace and how have the confidence and the ability to get up to speed quickly, to work well with a team, to apply some basic toolset of sort of quantitative and qualitative analysis to many different topics and issues, regardless of where you end up. 

The thing from my graduate school education that was the most valuable was we had to do a semester long group project. And that very closely mimicked what my day to day life was like working for this consulting firm for the last nine years. You had people with very different work styles. It's very easy to think that everybody works the same way that you do, that everyone thinks the same way that you do, that everyone communicates the same way that you do. But that's not true obviously, and learning how to work with people who think and work and communicate differently than you is undeniably one of the most important keys to success in the workplace today, no matter what field you're in. And the group projects force you to learn how to do that. 

In my field, collaboration is really essential because every article I work on involves a writer. Sometimes the writer has a research assistant, and I'm there as an editor. I have a top editor who looks at it after I do sometimes two of them. We have design people, we have copy editors, we have fact checkers, and everyone's going to change the piece a little bit, including the designers. Sometimes the designers will find a piece of art or do a portrait that makes me want the story to have an element it didn't have before just because of what they did visually. 

So I think the key thing to realize is that the end result is never going to be exactly what any one of those people would have done if they'd been sitting in a room by themselves and that that's often the goal is that it's better than what the person would come up with by themselves. But even if there are ways where you feel a little pinch as a writer, as an editor, that you didn't exactly get what you wanted, but there's something really beautiful about the collective energy of it that kind of supersedes that. We all have the ability. If I wanted to go self-publish a book, I could do that. I don't know how well it would sell. 

I think, more often than not, that dialectic of going back and forth with a thesis, antithesis, synthesis-- so I have an idea, my boss has a different idea, we have a phone conversation, and I say, aha, I get what you're saying here. Let's do the third thing. It sharpens it and sharpens it and sharpens it, and that's why we have editors. That's the reason for it. People also have layers of distance from the piece that give them perspective that you wouldn't have if you've been living and breathing it night and day. So in the end I think, just as in a lot of areas in life, it's a constant conversation between what we could control and what we can't control, and then what comes out of that is life. 

People who are strategic thinkers don't just accept what they're told necessarily. I think all of our fields are constantly evolving, and the way that we're taught how to do things or the way that we're taught that the world is evolves. And so in our work, it was really important to have people who would regularly question those things and bring new and different perspectives to the conversation. 

Every project that we did was different. We did not follow a template in our work. So we had hundreds of clients over the years, and each time we sat down with the client, and we understood their problem, and we designed a process that was going to help them get to the solution that they were looking for, that was unique to that client. Because the context of the culture and the politics and the people is different in every situation. 

And so folks who would not be considered strategic thinkers would just say, OK well how did we do that before? Let's just apply that same thing over again. But what we were really trying to get to was like, OK, it's important to think about what worked and what didn't work about how we've done things in the past, and then adapt that to meet the unique needs of this situation. 

And I think that is a skill, again, that is essential probably no matter what field you're in, because again, the world is evolving so quickly. We can't just accept the way that things have been done in the past. 

In my field, and I think in a lot of fields, what people are looking for is the ability to see the big picture and focus really sharply on details. And sometimes people are too much of one or the other. They have good big picture thinking but they can't zero in. Or sometimes they're very detail oriented, but they lose sight of the big picture. 

So I think part of what I was referring to when I talked about agility is that ability to go back and forth between seeing the big topic, and then focusing in on all the different areas. And so when we get cover letters, and we get resumes, we're looking for specific skills. I work at a magazine that focuses on science and history mostly, so we're looking to see like, oh, interesting, they have a minor in history. Or look at that, they also study physics. So we're looking for areas where they could be helpful to us. 

But we're also looking at curiosity, as one of the students put it. That's just whether they have the kind of mind that just wants to learn and uncover things. That's such an important skill for so many jobs, and certainly my line of work. 