I think the only thing that helped me make difficult decisions was continuing to be put in difficult situations It's realizing, OK, I really don't like my life right now, I'm really unhappy. No one is going to change it for me but me. So I need to either get up and do something, or I'm going to stay like this for the rest of my life. And it's doing that time and time again, that's the only thing that makes it easier. It's just, you've got to keep getting up. You can't just stay miserable. 

After my first semester stage managing, I did realize that it was a thing that I enjoyed and that I really did-- I did like being in charge or the person that organizes everything and make sure that things happen. And I like being in control, so it was a very fitting role for me, because I like to think I'm fairly good at it. So it just worked. It was just like, I'm already organized and I'm already on top of things. So it just came naturally. It really didn't take any effort for me to become a stage manager. It was just like all natural traits that I already had, and they just flourished. 

And that's when I realized, Oh, hey, I have these traits. Yeah, I thought I did, but like no, you actually do, because you're doing it. And now people are telling you you're doing it well. So you actually do have the traits. You're using them well. So that was when I realized-- I think that was actually a really big self-identifying point in my life too. Because it did make me realize, you're capable of a lot. If you can take a semester's worth of engineering classes and also keep track of college student actors, Yeah, I think you're doing all right. 

Even though difficult things happen, and things get uncomfortable, and you're not sure what to do. When you become uncertain, or you become scared, or you become just a mess maybe, in some cases. It's just a matter of doing it anyways. It doesn't matter if you're scared, it doesn't matter if you have doubts, you have to just do it. Go for it. Because if you don't, then you'll never know. You can't let fear stop you. Every day, fear has the opportunity to stop you, but you just have to keep going. You have to do things scared. Doesn't matter if you're scared or not, just do it. Just do it. 

Well, I think for those of us, many of us who have lost years in our 20s, they can be a little scary while we're in them. But then we look back later and we're so grateful for them. And I think one thing that's valuable is to think of what made them orienting years? As you said, what made them years where we actually learn something about ourselves and got on to a better path? Because I certainly have friends who maybe did that for a little too long and then got into their late 30s and early 40s and still hadn't caught the train they're waiting for. 

| think one thing is limiting those years. So if you spend a year doing something, and you've gained something but it's not really the track you want to be on, that's fine. But you don't want to make it 5 or 10 years of that. So that's one principle I would say. Another principle is, once it's been six months or you're stopping and I'm thinking, OK, what have I gained from this? What have I learned from this? And if I don't want to continue in this direction, how can I build on those skills and those things that I enjoy? 

For me, for example, I taught school for a year. And I didn't want to be a school teacher in the end, but I really enjoyed helping the students edit their papers and come up with ideas. And they realized that I wanted to be an editor, got me that much closer to what I did. Ultimately, end up doing it. And working with people it was really delightful. So I think that's really valuable. 

I think it's just like, I don't know a lot about agriculture, but my understanding is that it helps to let the fields go fallow every so often, or to plant different crops to rotate crops through. And I think it's the same with life. I think even when you've been in your career for a while, it helps to bring in some fresh energy. So if you can really harvest that in those years. 

Say, you spend a year and go to Europe and do something different. If you're harvesting fresh energy that you can then bring back, that makes that not actually a lost year. It makes it a found year. And much more fruitful than if you just kept your nose to the grindstone and stayed in the same line you'd been in. 

So my undergraduate education really did focus on all different disciplines. The first year program really made sure that students had a handle on the basics of art, and electronic engineering, and physics. And for me, that really helped me think broadly. I'm a journalist and I'm an editor, so actually in a very literal sense, these are all areas I touch on here and there throughout my work. But I think even in more narrow fields, you think about great thinkers like Einstein, for example, and how he played the violin. 

Or you hear stories about Nikola Tesla, and I remember hearing in my electronic engineering class that he was on a walk reciting poetry when he suddenly had a vision for something that would become his main breakthrough for engineering. And I think, when you get too stuck in one rut of thinking, you don't have those creative outside the box ideas. And so I think general education is really important for teaching your brain to function in all different ways that can wake you up when you least expect it. 

