I think the other thing that I would recommend is, again, based on what I didn't do but in retrospect I wish I had, which was to take more intro classes in different subjects, and to explore different potential career pathways. I came into college as an environmental studies major, and it worked out well for me. It worked out great for me, and I loved what I did. But I didn't even consider that there were other things out there, and I wish I would have taken intro to psychology, and some sort of intro to law, or some more science classes. But for taking those intro classes, how do you know if that's something that's really going to spark your interest? 

So I would really recommend using those four years to explore different career pathways. Because again, it's not going to be a waste if you take an intro to psych class and you don't like it. You are still going to get valuable tools and skills from that, undoubtedly. 

I don't know if I've mentioned this before, but I remember when I was in college studying science, but we were required to also take certain classes like the counseling, that is, introduction to counseling. And then I was told to study educational psychology, and then philosophy. We also had to take that. In fact, those days, us as science students had questions like, what do I need philosophy for? What do I need counseling for? That's not what I'm going to do. But now, looking back, even though I thought they were not helpful, looking back-- in fact, I will say that I'm actually relying heavily on some of these classes that I thought were not useful. 

One major regret that I had was, when I was in high school my music teacher had always said, Solomon, you had a very excellent music integration. We used to laugh at each other. People would laugh at me because I was studying music, and so I stopped. And I regret up to now. Because if I had done it, even as part of my business, I would have used it a lot in my current counseling practice. But if I had done it, even when I came to America, it would have been easier for me because the church I went to, they needed someone to play the keyboard for them. And I was so good at it, I just loved everything. 

So as a young student in the colleges, I will encourage all of them, I would just encourage them that, give yourself that opportunity. Be open. As I said earlier, be fluid in you're learning, and then study other areas that you might think that you have no interest. And at the end of the day, it would be very useful to you. That is one thing I will recommend or I would suggest to college students. 

Explore everything, do everything, try everything. Even if you're scared to try it, try it anyways. Even if you don't think you're going to be good at it, do it anyways. Even if you think it's probably going to not be so fun, give it a shot anyways. You're not losing anything, you're not missing out on anything, you're just giving things a try 

Why do you think that giving it a try is important? 

Because if you don't try, you'll never know what could have been. You just have to try. That's the first step. That's literally the first step, is to try. Without trying, there's no motion. 

I think a career is a quest. I think life is a quest. And a career ends up being a very important part of how you spend your time and energy and what you contribute to the world and what you gain from the world. I do think, though, that there are so many different things you could do, so you should never feel that you have one chance to get that gold goblet or whatever it is. As if the end of the quest, the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. There are a lot of rainbows and a lot of directions you could go. 

But since time is limited, certain point once you've looked around a bit and explored, you want to start thinking one step in front of the other and leading yourself towards somewhere. And I would just say, never feel limited, always look for clues that show you what you enjoy. Build relationships. Make sure that you're listening to people as well as speaking. And ask lots of questions, people love being asked questions. Makes them feel special like they actually know something. 

So never hesitate to reach out to someone even if it seems like a long shot just to come to their office and talk to them even if there's not a job available. And just be a person who is excited to be part of something. Who's excited to be part of a team, who's curious about everything. And I think if you approach life that way, you'll find what you're looking for. 

